# 625-final-project

# Background

COVID-19 hit the world by surprise in early 2020 and had since left profound impacts to social, economical, and physiological aspects. As a worldwide pandemic that’s not going away anytime soon, it has certainly caused significant changes to public behaviors. Our group is particularly interested in the economical impacts due to the pandemic. Through investigation on alcohol sales in Iowa, our group will figure out one perspective of the influences of the pandemic. And we believe that the analysis of the Iowa alcohol sales data provides a good reference to the overall trend in the retails sector. In the past two years, our daily lives have been drastically changed due to the evolving situation of COVID-19. Many industries such as airlines, leisure facilities, auto parts, restaurants, and etc were negatively impacted, and so was the sales of alcoholic beverages. Considering such, it implies a decrease of alcohol sales during the pandemic.

At the same time, stay at home order, social distancing, and working from home could lead to an increase in alcohol consumption. Moreover, liquor was used as a disinfectant in the beginning of the pandemic due to the outage of rubbing alcohol. Additionally, it was also expected that people were staying at home during the pandemic and most likely, increasing the consumption of alcoholic beverages at home to relieve the stress. All those considerations imply an increase of alcohol sales. With some analysis, the Iowa alcohol sales data turned out to reveal the conclusion that, alcohol retail store sales increased compared to usual trends while food services and drinking places sales decreased markedly during the same period. All together, now is a good time to invest in the retail industry of alcoholic beverages.

# Dataset

The dataset chosen for this analysis is the “Iowa Liquor Sales” data publicly available from the state of Iowa. More specifically, this dataset contains the spirits purchase information of Iowa Class “E” liquor licensees by product and date of purchase from January 1, 2012 to current. Class E liquor license, for grocery stores, liquor stores, convenience stores, etc., allows commercial establishments to sell liquor for off-premises consumption in original unopened containers. For our analysis, sales data from Oct. 2017 to Oct. 2021 was selected from the original data with 14 variables of interest (out of 24 variables in the raw dataset), such as store, brand, sales volume, and sales price, considering data duplication, completion, and data types. Overall, more than 9,900,000 observations were evaluated.
